We've shared quite a bit about the
importance of your role when it comes to
escalating incidents.
We've even discussed a few incident
types that you may encounter.
But what are the actual steps you need to
take to properly escalate an incident?
The answer to that question actually
depends on the organization
you're working for.
There isn't a set standard or process for
incident escalation that
all organizations use.
Every security team has
their own processes and
procedures when it comes
to handling incidents.
In this video, we're going to
discuss general guidelines for
incident escalation and
how to apply them on the job.
Let's get started!
Each organization has its own process for
handling security incidents.
That process is known as
an escalation policy,
which is a set of actions that
outline who should be notified when
an incident alert occurs and
how that incident should be handled.
Ideally, the escalation process
would go smoothly every time.
But in the workplace, challenges to
that process can happen unexpectedly.
For example, what if your immediate
supervisor is out of office?
If an incident occurs that day,
it still needs to be escalated to someone.
This is one example of why understanding
your organization's escalation policy is
important.
You don't need to memorize your
organization's escalation policy, but
it is wise to save or
bookmark it on your work device.
This way, you'll always have
access to it when you need it.
Following an organization's escalation
policy is essential, because
the actions you take help
protect the organization and
the people it serves
from malicious actors.
The escalation policy for an organization
can be an extensive document.
So it's up to you to pay
attention to the small details
within the escalation policy
of your organization.
Attention to detail can make the
difference between escalating an incident
to the right or wrong person.
It can also help you prioritize
which incidents need to be
escalated with more or less urgency.
Every organization handles incident
escalation differently, but
analysts need to ensure that
incidents are handled correctly.
Great work expanding
your security mindset!